<link rel="stylesheet" href="../source.css">
<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/bootstrap-icons@1.5.0/font/bootstrap-icons.css">

<h1 style="text-align:center">Git - Patching</h1>

## Git apply

### Description
Reads the supplied diff output (i.e. "a patch") and applies it to files. When running from a subdirectory in a repository, patched paths outside the directory are ignored. With the `--index` option the patch is also applied to the index, and with the `--cached` option the patch is only applied to the index. Without these options, the command applies the patch only to files, and does not require them to be in a Git repository.

This command applies the patch but does not create a commit. Use git-am to create commits from patches generated by git-format-patch and/or received by email.

### Options
<code1>--stat</code1></br>
Instead of applying the patch, output diffstat for the input. Turns off "apply".

<code1>--numstat</code1></br>
Similar to --stat, but shows the number of added and deleted lines in decimal notation and the pathname without abbreviation, to make it more machine friendly. For binary files, outputs two - instead of saying 0 0. Turns off "apply".

<code1>--summary</code1></br>
Instead of applying the patch, output a condensed summary of information obtained from git diff extended headers, such as creations, renames and mode changes. Turns off "apply".

<code1>--check</code1></br>
Instead of applying the patch, see if the patch is applicable to the current working tree and/or the index file and detects errors. Turns off "apply".

<code1>--index</code1></br>
Apply the patch to both the index and the working tree (or merely check that it would apply cleanly to both if --check is in effect). Note that <code1>--index expects index entries and working tree copies for relevant paths to be identical (their contents and metadata such as file mode must match), and will raise an error if they are not, even if the patch would apply cleanly to both the index and the working tree in isolation.

<code1>--cached</code1></br>
Apply the patch to just the index, without touching the working tree. If --check is in effect, merely check that it would apply cleanly to the index entry.

## Git rebase

### Description
If < branch> is specified, git rebase will perform an automatic `git switch <branch>` before doing anything else. Otherwise it remains on the current branch.

If < upstream> is not specified, the upstream configured in branch.< name>.remote and branch.< name>.merge options will be used (see git-config for details) and the `--fork-point` option is assumed. If you are currently not on any branch or if the current branch does not have a configured upstream, the rebase will abort.

All changes made by commits in the current branch but that are not in < upstream> are saved to a temporary area. This is the same set of commits that would be shown by `git log <upstream>..HEAD`; or by `git log 'fork_point'..HEAD`, if `--fork-point` is active (see the description on `--fork-point` below); or by `git log HEAD`, if the `--root` option is specified.

The current branch is reset to < upstream>, or < newbase> if the --onto option was supplied. This has the exact same effect as `git reset --hard <upstream>` (or < newbase>). ORIG_HEAD is set to point at the tip of the branch before the reset.

The commits that were previously saved into the temporary area are then reapplied to the current branch, one by one, in order. Note that any commits in HEAD which introduce the same textual changes as a commit in HEAD..<upstream> are omitted (i.e., a patch already accepted upstream with a different commit message or timestamp will be skipped).

It is possible that a merge failure will prevent this process from being completely automatic. You will have to resolve any such merge failure and run `git rebase --continue`. Another option is to bypass the commit that caused the merge failure with `git rebase --skip`. To check out the original < branch> and remove the .git/rebase-apply working files, use the command `git rebase --abort` instead.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> This section talk about later

## Git revert

### Description
Given one or more existing commits, revert the changes that the related patches introduce, and record some new commits that record them. This requires your working tree to be clean (no modifications from the HEAD commit).

Note: git revert is used to record some new commits to reverse the effect of some earlier commits (often only a faulty one). If you want to throw away all uncommitted changes in your working directory, you should see git-reset, particularly the `--hard` option. If you want to extract specific files as they were in another commit, you should see git-restore, specifically the `--source` option. Take care with these alternatives as both will discard uncommitted changes in your working directory.

### Options
<code1>< commit>…​</code1></br>
Commits to revert. For a more complete list of ways to spell commit names, see gitrevisions. Sets of commits can also be given but no traversal is done by default, see git-rev-list and its `--no-walk` option.

<code1>--edit</code1></br>
With this option, git revert will let you edit the commit message prior to committing the revert. This is the default if you run the command from a terminal.

### Sequencer Subcommands
<code1>--continue</code1></br>
Continue the operation in progress using the information in .git/sequencer. Can be used to continue after resolving conflicts in a failed cherry-pick or revert.

<code1>--skip</code1></br>
Skip the current commit and continue with the rest of the sequence.

<code1>--quit</code1></br>
Forget about the current operation in progress. Can be used to clear the sequencer state after a failed cherry-pick or revert.

<code1>--abort</code1></br>
Cancel the operation and return to the pre-sequence state.















